I found this thing called the natural
number game and I'm gonna work through
it on the stream we're gonna see what
happens
I feel like they're improving is pretty
cool
but I'm very unacquainted with it so
let's get started
zoom in a little bit maybe each level in
this game involves proving a
mathematical statement
in the first in this first level
you have three natural numbers X Y and Z
listed under objects
I don't see that at all oh
and you want to prove that x times y
plus Z is equal to x times y plus Z
you can modify the goal using tactics
until you can close it
the first tactic is called rfl which
stands for reflexive reflexivity a fancy
way of saying that it'll prove any goal
of the form a equals a
doesn't matter how complicated a is all
that matters is that the left hand side
is exactly equal to the right hand side
and really I mean press the same buttons
on your computer in the same order equal
but for x times y plus Z equal to x
times yeah
right
so I should just be able to say wait
hold on
is this a cheap code
oh I don't know
this is the goal and by reflexivity
right okay
oh that's neat
okay in this level you also get
assumptions about your objects these are
hypotheses which you assume or know that
they are true the rewrite tactic is the
way to substitute in the value of a
variable if you have hypothesis the form
a equals B and your goal mentions the
left hand side a somewhere
then the rewrite tactic will replace a
in your goal with a B
here's a theorem which cannot be proved
using rfl you need a rewrite first
If X and Y are natural numbers then y
plus Y is equal to X plus seven then two
Y is equal to two X plus seven
so H is the hypothesis
so it's literally just this
oh you can use
well
now we start from the beginning where we
don't know about addition or
multiplication on n
all we get is the following data the
term
a function for the successor
and the principle of mathematical
induction
these axioms are essentially the axioms
isolated by piano which unique uniquely
characterize the natural numbers
we also need recursion but we can ignore
it for now the first Axiom says that
zero is a natural number the second says
that there's a suck function
yeah you ladies out there know
use that on me plus one am I right
which eats a number and splits it spits
out the number after it's a suck zero
so I think what we need to do is uh suck
on and am I right guys
I'm [__] bro
uh and so on Canada's Last Action is the
principle of mathematical induction this
is a deeper fact it says that if we have
infinitely many true false statements
uh
uh and P of 0 is true and if for every
natural number D we know that P of D
implies P of Suk D then P of n must be
true
for every natural number n it's like
saying if you have a long line of
dominoes and you knock down the first
one and if you know that a domino Falls
then the next one will fall too then you
can deduce that all the dominoes will
fall down it's a nice description one
can also think of it as saying that
every natural number can be built by
starting at zero and applying suck a
finite number of times piano's insights
were firstly that these axioms
completely characterize the natural
numbers and secondly that these axioms
alone can be used to build a whole bunch
of other
structure on the natural numbers for
example multiplication addition and so
on
this game is all about seeing how far
these axioms of piano can take us now
let's practice the use of rewrite with
this new function suck
Okay so
I mean I feel like it's definitely this
wait hold on hold on
um undo
I like this highlighting
now zoom in I don't care
zoom in it'll help
oh I can do this
nappy doesn't refresh
okay
so it's saying replace this with B so
yes okay so rewrite h
profile
beeping
oh she made a sound
piano defined Edition a plus b by
induction on B more precisely by
recursion on B he first explained how to
add zero to any number
this is the base case add zero of a Type
n
a plus zero equals a
Rec we'll call this theorem at zero more
precisely add zero is the name of the
proof of the theorem
note the name of this proof
mathematicians sometimes call it Lemma
two point or hypo but computer
scientists call it add zero because it
tells you what the answer to x adds zero
is it's a much better name even better
you can use the rewrite tactic with ADD
zero
okay
now here's the inductive step if you
know how to add D to a
the piano tells you how to add
suck DJ
okay
um
we assume that a plus D is already
defined and we Define a plus SEC D to be
the number after
um
so wait so I write rewrite
ads suck
oh wait
did it change
oh oh it did okay rewrite add suck
then we do rewrite
add zero
then we do rfl
and we're done okay that's pretty fun
okay
cool that was kind of fun actually
addition world
welcome to Edition world if you've done
all four levels in tutorial world and
know about rewriting rfl then you're in
the right place here's a reminder of the
things you're now equipped with which we
need will need in this world
and that's zero suck
haha winky face
no it doesn't it doesn't reset that's
super annoying or I mean it does
laughs
okay let's see induction in action we're
going to prove zero add
what's going on here didn't we already
prove that adding 0 to n gives n no we
didn't we proved
n plus 0 equals n and that proof is
called add zero now we're going to
establish zero add and prove that zero
plus n equals n but at these theorems
the same no they're not it's true that X
Plus Y is equal to Y plus X we haven't
proved it yet and in fact we will need
both add zero and zero add in order to
prove this in fact X Plus Y is equal to
Y plus s is the boss level for addition
world
boss level and induction is the only
other tactic you'll need to beat it
now add zero is one of pianos axioms so
we don't need to prove it we already
have uh we already have it yeah
um
right so it's assumed to be true
to prove zero plus n we need to use
induction on n
while we're here note that zero add is
about
zero add something and add zeros but
okay
bro it just says type that in but that's
not really that helpful
you can start a proof by induction Over
N by typing induction n with DHD
see that did too much bro
I didn't get that at all
I don't even know what it did
oh
uh
wait can I do
rewrite
hmm
I want to go back
so you start with zero plus n equals n
and you just say induction on n
and I don't really know what it does
though
now you have two goals once you prove
the first you would jump to the second
one okay the first is the base case of n
equals zero
clothing is okay all right
sure that that makes sense dude these
proven these their purpose are kind of
sick
um
so what do I say I say uh uh rewrite add
zero
rfl
okay so now we did that part
so our assumption is this
oh this is Docs
that's not helpful at all
oh yeah yeah yeah wait rewrite ad
suck right
be right
add zero
huh
wait oh rewrite NIH now
rfl
bro I'm sick at this
that was fun
this [__] is fun
I wish I could just
uh
uh uh
yeah
this [__] is fun
I feel like this isn't it
thank you
um
see it almost helps me too much because
I was like
I don't know it's almost too much it's
well known that one plus two plus three
is equal to one plus two plus three
if you have three numbers to add up it
doesn't matter which of the additions we
do first this fact is called the
associativity of additions by
mathematicians and is not obvious
this fact is called the associative
development is not obvious for example
subtraction really is not a associative
we're gonna have to approve the prove
the addition as defined
the way we've defined it is associative
see if you can prove associativity of
addition
all right
go chat this is fun this [__] is fun
it's just so fun
falling
I know you want to cry all night
don't you grow up in a hurry
yo mama be worried now
it was up the stormy
but why doesn't it I wish it put the
parentheses there
okay fine but induction C
uh
uh now we want to do rewrite
do we want to rewrite
that oh that's what's up next for sure
that's kind of cringe isn't it
okay
add that Zuck
ooh
what if I do it one more time
nice oh that's
uh
what do I just keep doing it
foreign
oh yeah I always forget that we can
assume yeah that's the same so rewrite
and I I H
okay so now rfl [__] good
easy bruh
now we have add a soak that's kind of
cool
oh no one way to add com a wild suck ad
bro these names dude
oh no on the way to add community of a
wild suck ad appears suck at is the
proof that suck a plus b is equal to
suck a plus b for A and B international
number type we need to prove this now
because we will need
to use this result in our proof that a
plus b is equal to B plus a in the next
level
think about why computer scientists call
this result suck ad
[Music]
I feel like fear improving is the cat's
kind of programming language that you
can do standing up
let's close all my other [__]
I have in here
nothing
oh what
hey do I put the Plus
this gives me no information dude
what if I do this
what does that mean
it means you're using the hypothesis
that you're using the goal
foreign
[Music]
I was worried about that you see I don't
know when to use it though
induction
[Music]
B
uh
so now we're trying to say
SEC a plus suck n equals SEC a plus
all right we're starting Michelle
foreign
's right there
oh
um
can I do this
didn't get this pattern matching down
see that fails why does that fail
all right let's let's figure that again
again
all right so
the hypothesis that suck a plus n is
equal to suck a plus n
so this
is equal to this so we can rewrite that
as what which side does it pick when you
do it
it picked
this side all right fine but now we have
uh oh so we did it
cool
all right return to the natural number
game
boss battle music look in your inventory
to see proofs you have available
oh neat okay that's where all that [__]
was
all right so obviously
this but like they want me to they want
me to say that
all right so now
can I just do this
so stupid
so what did we actually do like I'm just
like mindlessly applying these rules
we're saying
we want to prove that if B is zero that
this holds and then using that we want
to say that suck
select B holds
can I do this
oh nice you can't
cool so
okay and now we're saying yeah we have
some n
and we're assuming the the zero case
so now we should be able to say
rewrite ad suck suck cuss
foreign
we get we get this assumption yeah
uh
that's so easy
dude this is kind of cool man
um
[Music]
suck eek add one
oh wait so I have this so I just need to
rewrite this
okay another rewrite ad suck
here I add zero
rfl
[Music]
I mean sometimes write a plus b plus c
hmm
didn't work
okay
foreign
do I have
doesn't tell me what that does though I
wish this told me what this thing does
sorry hold on rewrite
had
cool
I finally got that pattern matcher to
work that's nice
so wait so we want to actually rewrite
oh hold on
check out this AI that can do it for us
yeah bro sometimes simping is not good
[Music]
okay
uh okay lemons which are clearly a
simplification like add zero are marked
as simple Emma's
and then a tactic tries to apply them
and use reflexive at the end
foreign
will get stronger
bro we're going to complete this game we
have like an hour but we're gonna
complete this game
Chad what should I do what should I do
I'll just uh
let's start here I guess
of course we are ultimately interested
in using these tactics to prove theorems
about the natural numbers but in this
world there's little point in working
with specific sets like mynat everything
else everything works for General sets
so our notation for this level is p q r
and so on you know General sets h j k
you know General functions between them
what we'll learn in this world is how to
use functions in lean to push elements
from set to set a word of warning
even though there's no harm in thinking
of p as being a set and P being an
element
you will not see lean unit using that
notation
a new kind of goal
this one just needs to go away forever
all through
all through Edition world their goals
have been theorems and it was our job to
find the proofs the levels in function
world aren't theorems
this is the only world where the levels
are ethereums in in function world the
object of a level is to create an
element of the set in the goal
if you can explicitly see how to make an
element from your goal set
in this situation we have sets p and Q
and an element P of P
we also have a function
H from P to q and our goal is to
construct an element of the set Q
I didn't really get that at all I
thought this was more of like
oh actually no okay that makes sense
it's clear what to do mathematically to
sell the school but can we make an
element of Q by applying the function H
to the element P how do we do it in lean
there are at least two ways to explain
this idea to lean and here we'll learn
about one of them namely the method
which we which uses the exact tactic
concretely HP is an element of type Q so
you can use exact HP to use it note that
while mathematicians you might write HP
you always
okay fine
[Music]
all right
let's make a function let's define the
function on the natural numbers which
sends a natural number n to Three N plus
two you see that the goal is end to end
a mathematician might denote this set
with some exotic names such as
the type of all functions from X to y
[Music]
EP
interesting
it's
say you have a whole bunch of sets and
functions between them and your goal is
to build a certain element of a certain
set if it helps you can build
intermediate elements of other sets
along the way using the have command
have is the lean analog
of saying let's define an element q and
Q by
in the middle of a calculation
it's often not logically necessary but
on the other hand it's very convenient
for example we can save a notation
in the level below we have an element of
p i mean one element of U
during the proof we will make several
intermediate elements of some okay the
diagrams
foreign
easy
to the same level again
or goes to find an element of U or in
other words find the path
and level three we solve this with have
using the apply Factor we can instead
construct the path backwards
interesting
foreign
[Music]
easy
mm-hmm
[Music]
foreign
what
um
if I do apply f
yeah see I don't I don't even know what
I did
I remember intros I remember seeing that
at one point
okay and
throw it
it's just like bookkeeping bro like
I didn't even know what the theorem the
thing was the contravance of yeah bro I
just proved the contravariance of hum
dot to f functor
whenever this sets p q and F are
whatever they are we make an element of
a map from this set of functions to this
set of functions
but
[Music]
foreign
what
bro wow that was that didn't make any
sense to me at all
regardless pretty easy to prove
tight
I don't know what that is
function world was lame dude I want
something new
oh do I have to solve this [__] maze
bro
it better be linear otherwise this is
super cringe
I think I'm locked out bro
foreign
yeah but like you didn't let my laughter
was not contagious
and it lost well oh gosh that is so lame
well that's all I have to say
what
all right I'll talk to you later
what did I do today
I didn't do much today
I don't know
in this world you start with the
definition of multiplication on the
naturals it is defined by recursion just
like addition was so you get two new
axioms mole zero and moles suck
in words we Define multiplication by
induction on the second variable
a times zero defined to be zero and if
we know a times B
then a times suck great
then a times the number after B is
defined to be eight times
B plus a yeah
so you can keep all the theorems you
proved about addition but for
multiplication those two results are
above or what you've got right now yeah
so what's going on in multiplication
world
like a dish in multiplication world
like addition we need to go for the
proofs that multiplication is
commutative and associative but as well
yeah
like this more what no I'm just trying
to work through this cool game I found
[Music]
I started watching these linear algebra
videos and then quickly it became like
12.
okay text you soon bye
I follow all my viewers that's that's a
that's true that's true I do
in words we Define multiplication by
induction on the second variable with a
times zero defined to be zero and if we
know a times B then a times B
then a times the number after B is
defined to be a times B plus a
you can keep all the themes you proved
okay let's just get into it I'm [__]
trying to run through this thing this is
a speed run of math this is math speed
run
all right zero times M so we can do
so zero mole so rewrite
zero mole
bro what oh wait wait
oh but I don't have this yet is that
what they're saying
right okay
so do I need to start out within
induction
uh
uh can I just do simp
ly put about
right mole zero
okay reflexive okay now
rewrite suck mole
got a moles
can I write that
okay
where I add zero
uh yeah rewrite add zero
right
uh oh wait now we do rewrite uh n i h
a reflexive easy bruh some of these
proofs so easy dog
y'all ain't got it
wait what happened to my chat here
Docs chat
there we go
oh I should change my
okay in this level we'll need to use the
One X zero
oh yeah okay
right
uh
we're right
oh no no one do I have I don't have tab
complete that's really lame
do you think you have to type a bunch
rewrite
most suck
we write moles zero
bro it's almost too easy
I actually think it is too easy
just a little bit
okay
okay oh wait I did it
these proofs from addition world might
be useful here one eight six zero
sucky Gad one
right I should write this I should
follow along on pen and paper because
then
like I'll see
what's up but I only have 40 minutes
before I have to
finish
so it's clearly induction on M
then our base click case is rewrite mole
zero
then reflexive so the base case is done
now
rewrite
mole suck
rewrite what do I have right now
mole one right
I don't think I have this yeah
um
okay nice
mole one
wait
do I have this rewrite NIH
yeah yeah yeah and then rfl okay cool
where are we going
am I gonna get banned
hot night hobra
where's come from where does go where's
Joe
what they're Swedish
that is so weird
okay
but we want to prove mole commutative
and more associative
the technical term for this is left
distributed yeah okay fine
okay let me just look at the proof
okay
uh
I say I don't get how this really proved
that though
yeah that actually makes sense
what if we do rewrite suck Peak
add one
let's do it again
but if I do simp
nothing
gets me nothing
never gets me anything
nice guys always been his last
um so what's up with this
wait but actually I think that I can
rewrite the hypothesis now
yeah hold on
what if I do rewrite add
a
okay see now I think that's right
what
maybe I shouldn't have Rewritten that
suck thing let's go back a bunch
I feel like I can just use the
hypothesis but it's gonna say no
I'm back to square one bruh
yeah see that's done as hell
that's clearly not right
what is this rule hold on
what if I just do it again
you can go in circles right so if I do
do I have the opposite
this
I want to read the guide again
I'm restarting
uh rewrite
ad suck
rewrite uh
mole suck
we're at mall suck again
rewrite
add a soap this says it's gonna fail
right but like how do I get this out of
here
easy bruh so easy
all right now it's the big dog this big
dog
[Music]
we now have enough to prove that
multiplication is associative
random tax account repeat
to repeat a text oh that's super nice I
was wondering about that actually
earlier
more soak bro
okay
okay mole of soak let's do it
inductee I don't know why we always do c
and like they just uh
they told me and
that's useful
yeah just to like do fixed point
simplification it makes sense but it's
only of a specific rule so it doesn't do
the whole Gambit
okay
rewrite wait repeat
rewrite moles suck
yeah
now our assumption is that a times B
times n is equal to a times B times that
so what do we need to do
that one was fun I like that one
we now begin our journey to molcom
we have 20 minutes left
the proof that a times B is equal to B
times a
um
let me just write simp
[__]
bro sometimes simple
but did it it did it right yeah
now you've suck a times suck n is equal
to a times SEC n plus second
but a plus one times n plus one
times M plus one
yeah that's correct yeah that's correct
no no mine's tripping
um
uh repeat
rewrite
suck Peak add one
simp
um
bro simple for me bro
no God
just do it again
but I want the little backwards Arrow
I don't have a little backwards Arrow
dude I don't get this pattern matcher
this thing does not make sense to me
this is my goal rewrite that
yeah we just did it
cancer right to simp here
uh
dude like I don't even get it
it's left associative
fine I don't get this pattern matcher
this thing is cringe
oh wait
uh that's not even what I wanted dude
okay nice nice
no where's that little freaking
Arrow
where's that little backwards
oh you can use the ASCII equivalent oh
that would have been nice to know
this is definitely gonna fail
spiders
oh there we go
[__] yeah that one was annoying as hell
okay we proved them all out already but
because we don't have Community yet we
also need to prove Admiral we have a
bunch of tools now so we won't be too
hard you know what you can do this one
by induction on any of the variables try
them all which okay
let's try a
right okay yeah see oh I now I see why
we needed the last one just because we
didn't have it yet but once we got it
got there it's all good
because we can we can do rewrite zero ad
and rewrite but you just do simp dude
that's simp let's simp oh we don't have
simp on this
rewrite zero mold do we have zero mole
nice right zero add
rfl
very very nice very very nice
right
suck Ed
rewrite
suck mold do we have suck mole
we do have suck Mall
I suck them all
rewrite
oh wait hold on
do we have rewrite
add more
we have not unlocked it oh that's
because that's what we're trying to do
wait uh rewrite NIH
bruh
rewrite
um
I don't like that
okay there we go it's just a parentheses
issue
[__] what
I'm like individually moving these
stupid ass things around
oh my God just simply bro just simple
it sucks
all right let's go back
rewrite add a uh
so
rewrite
add com B times t
uh
add a soap
Collective
oh we did it
I'm so sick
[Music]
finally the boss level of multiplication
world but assuming you didn't cheat you
were well prepared for it you have zero
mole and mole zero as well as suck more
and mole suck after this of course you
can throw away one of each pair if you
like but I recommend you hold on
sometimes convenient
nah I'd be simping I don't need it
okay
conduct hey oh that's annoying
induction a
uh rewrite moles zero zero mole
Oracle
okay so we proved the base case
now rewrite suck mole mole
oh okay
uh
oh easy that was such an easy proof
foreign
oh [__]
isn't there one where I can do like
can I just simp
nice
that's sick that's sick
can I simp my way out of this
oh wait wait wait rewrite
uh what is it it's mole
it's molad
wow that was fun
catfish is fun this is fun chat
this seems kind of like a toy though
like uh
that is so so cool
oh that's so cool you get graphism
dude
weak dual snake Lemma
dude this is the exact dude this is the
exact kind of thing that's just really
beautiful
formalized math into computer language a
pseudo-normed group in a billion is an
abelian group together with an
increasing filtration of subsets indexed
by r
non-negative
such that each
element of the filtration
or
each subset contains zero is closed
under negate dude I don't even know what
this means bro
let's go to something basic
maybe it's actually that the bottom
I wonder what
oh right see these ones are probably the
simple
dude this is [__] awesome
whoa
dude proof their improvers are sick so
beautiful
all right I'm gonna close out I didn't
finish but uh maybe we'll finish the
natural number game tomorrow
um let's just see if I close this and
reopen it do I remember my spot it
should
yeah nice
cool so we'll try to finish this part
tomorrow